---
title: "on social justice"
date: 2023-11-01
categories: General
---

This week we have been asked the prompt: “Do you believe that social media is an appropriate channel for libraries to promote social justice issues? Why or why not?”

My perspective is that social media can be used for social justice and can be done so appropriately. However, one might need to be very careful about it. I see the usage of social media for social justice purposes by a library to be best when done as a wayfinding or information finding device. An example of this would be the model provided by #bookTok on TikTok. Providing book recommendations, highlights, and similar calls to attention of a book, author, or subject series can help people find content and encourage them to learn more about something. The person consuming the media content retains the power to act on the information and make their own decisions on how to proceed. They can discover resources they might not have known about otherwise. They can gain exposure to collections from authoritative sources. They can learn about assets that are otherwise hidden from general public, such as those found in archives or special collections. Highlighting specific authors, experts in fields, and other authorities can lead to personal investigations, growth, and garnering of experience that would otherwise have been missed without the happenstance of crossing a tag or highlight. The use of organic, yet slightly curated, exploration is the key element here.

However even with this tone is important. If an account has gained popularity due to the humor used in the majority of its posts, then adjusting tone for more serious issues like those presented in social justice causes and topics will be paramount. Or perhaps the account should refrain entirely. They have made a name for themselves due to the levity of topics. That will be the primary draw for some users. The account will need to weigh the pros and cons of speaking up and highlighting an issue important to them versus the reactions and consequences generated due to sudden tone and content shift. While it might be expected for opposing views from followers come to the fore, the account may as well see aligned/sympathetic followers disassociate themselves due to finding a shift in type of content. Where they might only been seeking entertainment and escapism, they will find themselves suddenly thrust back into the world they were hoping to get away from; thereby experiencing some dissonance and potential dissatisfaction and responding appropriately.

Ultimately, I believe it is up to the individual accounts to evaluate their purpose, historical methodologies and practices, their target audience(s), motivations, and goals with their social media platforms. Only then will they be able to make their own decisions on how to interact with social justice causes on social media. Only then will they be able to answer the question of what is appropriate for them.
